magento/devdocs#7366: GraphQl. subscribeEmailToNewsletter. Mutation for subscribe feature. (#7422)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.4/graphql/mutations/subscribe-email-to-newsletter.md

---
group: graphql
title: subscribeEmailToNewsletter mutation
contributor_name: Atwix
contributor_link: https://www.atwix.com/
---

The `subscribeEmailToNewsletter` mutation allows subscription for guests and registered customers.

## Syntax

`mutation: {subscribeEmailToNewsletter(email: String!): SubscribeEmailToNewsletterOutput}`

## Example usage

The following call adds an email into a newsletter subscription.

**Request:**

```graphql
mutation {
  subscribeEmailToNewsletter(
    email: "email@example.com"
  ) {
    status
  }
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "data": {
    "subscribeEmailToNewsletter": {
      "status": "SUBSCRIBED"
    }
  }
}
```

## Input arguments

> Mutation contains a required `email` argument specified an email address which should be added into a newsletter subscription.

Author: **implemented**

## Output attributes

The `SubscribeEmailToNewsletterOutput` object contains the following attributes:

Attribute | Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`status` | SubscriptionStatusesEnum | Contains a subscription status of specified `email` address.

### SubscriptionStatusesEnum object

> In general, the `SubscriptionStatusesEnum` object can return one of the following values:

Reviewer: To be precise, the `SubscriptionStatusesEnum` is not an "object" but a "set of possible states"

I would suggest the following 

```suggestion
The `SubscriptionStatusesEnum` is a predefined set of possible subscription statuses
```

Author: **implemented**

Value | Description
--- | ---
`NOT_ACTIVE` | Subscription requires a confirmation. Confirmation email has been sent to specified email address to confirm the subscription.
`SUBSCRIBED` | Email address is subscribed.
`UNSUBSCRIBED` | Email address is unsubscribed.
`UNCONFIRMED` | Specified email ties to customer which did not confirm a required customer registration.

> For the `subscribeEmailToNewsletter` mutation the `SubscriptionStatusesEnum` object may return only 2 of them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `subscribeEmailToNewsletter` mutation for the `status` field may return only the following statuses:
```

Reviewer: A minor adjustment just to mention that SubscriptionStatusesEnum cannot physically return anything since it's like an array.

Author: Yep.

**implemented**
